# Cookies

<EpicVideo url="https://www.epicweb.dev/workshops/authentication-strategies-and-implementation/cookies/intro-to-cookies" />

## A bit of history

HTTP Cookies have been around since the very beginning of the web. They were
invented to solve the problem of state management in web applications. Cookies
allow websites to store small pieces of data on a user's device which is then
sent along with every request to the server. This enables the server to maintain
session information and remember user preferences across different interactions.

Cookies have become a fundamental part of web browsing and online user
experiences, facilitating various functions such as session management, tracking
user behavior, and personalization. However, due to privacy concerns, the use of
cookies has evolved, and modern browsers provide users with more control over
cookie settings, including options to block or delete cookies. Despite this, the
most secure solution for managing user sessions is still to use cookies.

## GDPR

A common misconception among developers is that if your site uses
cookies at all, it needs to display a [GDPR](https://gdpr.eu/what-is-gdpr/)
banner. This is inaccurate. The topic of GDPR is complex and beyond the scope of
this workshop (feel free to talk to a lawyer if you're concerned), but in
general if you avoid the use of cookies for tracking and advertising purposes,
you should be fine without a consent banner.

Learn more about how
[There is **no** EU Cookie Banner Law](https://www.bitecode.dev/p/there-is-no-eu-cookie-banner-law).

## Cookies vs. Local Storage

Some applications store user information (like the user's ID or preferences) in
`localStorage`. This is not a secure solution, as `localStorage` can be accessed
by any script running on the page.

Additionally, `localStorage` is not sent with every request to the server, so
the server cannot use it as part of the initial rendering of the page. This
means that the page will not be able to display user-specific information until
the client-side code has loaded and made a request to the server to retrieve the
user's information.

Bad UX. Bad Security. Don't use it for this purpose.

## How it works

First, the cookie needs to be set in the browser. This can happen on the client
or on the server:

```ts
// Client-side
document.cookie = 'name=John Doe'
```

`document.cookie` is a string that contains all the cookies for the current
domain. [It's a funky API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/web/api/document/cookie).
You can definitely use it directly, but if you plan to work with cookies in the
browser a lot, you may consider using a library like
[js-cookie](https://www.npmjs.com/package/js-cookie).

<callout-info>
	Most of the time, you'll want to set the cookie on the server. This is because
	the server is the only place where you can securely set the cookie and you
	often want to set the cookie as part of the response to a request anyway.
</callout-info>

```ts
// Server-side
const response = new Response(body, {
	headers: {
		'set-cookie': 'name=John Doe',
	},
})
```

The API is a little less funky, but the string format is the same (and that is
funky too), so a library to help parse and serialize cookie values can be
helpful. A popular library for this is
[cookie](https://www.npmjs.com/package/cookie).

When the browser receives the response, it will parse the `set-cookie` header
and store the cookie in its "cookie jar". The browser will then send the cookie
along with every request to the server.

Browsers can have multiple cookies each with its own name and configuration.
We'll discuss this configuration more in the next exercise, but one important
bit of configuration for this exercise is the `path` property. This determines
which requests the cookie will be sent with. For example, if the cookie is set
with a path of `/admin`, it will only be sent with requests to `/admin` and its
subpaths (`/admin/users`, `/admin/settings`, etc.) but not for requests to `/`
or `/login`.
